so let's get started alright so today's
essay is looking assertive si is going
to be the agree/disagree si so for this
essay you have to take an opinion you
have to either strongly agree with a
statement
meaning that you agree all the way a
hundred percent you can somewhat agree
meaning that you have two opinions
really that you agree on one hand but
disagree also on the other or you can
take the point of view that you
completely disagree okay so you need to
take an opinion right about it and
support it so this is the structure of
an essay which you should all know by
now we have the introduction is the
first paragraph which introduces the
essay topic and your opinion but a
paragraph one which talks about the
first opinion but if paragraph two which
looks at the second opinion and the
conclusion which pretty much sums it up
so here's a more detailed breakdown of
the essay structure introduction
consists of three sentences we have here
books we have here the first sentence
which is a paraphrase of the first part
of the question second sentence which is
a paraphrase of the second part of the
question and the third sentence which
answers the question your body
paragraphs each look at one main idea
they give an explanation of that main
idea with reasons and examples and then
link back to the main idea transitioning
to the next your conclusion is always a
paraphrase of the first part of the
question again a paraphrase of the
second part of the question again and
then answering the question again so the
conclusion is almost like a mirror
image of the introduction so today we're
going to look at how to write or answer
a disagree agree essay question and how
to structure it bit by bit
so what do you have to do with this this
essay question type the first thing you
need to do is look for key words you
need to find out exactly what the essay
question is about what's the topic
what's the main idea these are your key
words you then want to unpack the
question which means break it up into
parts to make sure that you really
understand it then you need to identify
the topic to make sure that you're
writing exactly about the topic that
you're addressing the topic specifically
because lots of people write more
generally about a topic and may lose
marks in the task response criteria for
not writing directly about the topic so
that's step three and step four is then
answer the question using the formula so
let's look at step one look for key
words or phrases in the essay question
so what a key words key words are those
words that really stand out in the
question key words are not prepositions
articles joining words key words are
nouns and verbs so what are the key
words in this essay question let's go
through it together
increasing car usage so car usage is the
main point or the main topic this is the
subject here and what about car usage
it's increasing large global cities is
another keyword or keyphrase here a
number of problems and then banning
private vehicles banning private
vehicles from the city center
agree agree with this method so if we
want to just look at the keyword
increasing car usage global city's
problems banning private vehicle city
center agree so we can get the main idea
here by just looking at the keywords now
we want to unpack the question so a lot
of the time when we get an essay
question it can look like a paragraph an
essay question it can be four to five
sentences and we look at it and we might
say okay well what is the essay about
what is it asking me to do there's too
much information so we need to unpack it
take out the important pieces and
separate them to make sure we really
understand the question so part one of
an essay question usually it comes in
three parts
part one usually introduces the general
topic so the general topic of the one we
just looked at was increasing car usage
so we know that the essay question is
about cars the second part of the
question the second sentence usually
links it to a specific idea the specific
idea here was that we should ban cars in
city in large cities so banning the cars
this is a specific idea related to the
topic and then part three is usually
your instruction an explanation of what
the essay requires you to do so let's
break this essay question up or unpack
it into its three parts part one
increase in car usage in many global
cities has caused a number of problems
this is introducing us to the general
idea
part two the specific idea related to
car usage in global cities is it should
be banned that some cities have proposed
banning private vehicles from
city center and then part three is to
what extent do you agree with this
method so to what extent do you agree
that path should be banned in city
centers so the general topic increased
in car usage the specific idea is that
okay because there are many problems
with cars and cities we should ban them
then part three is what do you have to
do you have to explain whether you agree
with this method or disagree with this
method so there are the three parts of
our essay question next you want to
identify the topic so generally what is
the essay question about what is it
asking so what is the topic a new cars
be banning private cars and cities or C
I have no idea so the answer of course
is the banning private vehicles in
cities this is the idea that you have to
take an opinion on so I'm going to give
you a little task here is an essay
question the modern world many children
spend a lot of time in front of
computers televisions or smartphone this
is very harmful to them to what extent
do you agree the first task what are the
keywords in that question I'm going to
give you 60 seconds to type them in
[Music]
okay let's have a look the key words
here are children okay the main idea or
the main subject of this essay is
children what about children computers
television smartphones save technology
usage what about it it's harmful
so the harmful effects of technology on
children and do you agree so these are
our key words here what are the three
parts of the essay question so unpacking
it what's the main idea so the main idea
is this in the modern world children are
spending more time in front of
Technology the second part is the
specific idea that it's harmful okay
this is the opinion that you need to
agree with is it harmful yes or no
what's the topic well the topic is the
harm of technology to children so this
brings us to step four now that we can
understand the different parts of the
essay question break it down so that we
know exactly what we need to write about
next thing we need to do is brainstorm
and plan brainstorm means think of ideas
so here you're going to have lots of
ideas related to the topic and
Lanning is then taking those multitudes
of ideas and planning okay which ones am
I going to use in - a to really focus it
so right to our original question about
power usage and some city should ban
private vehicles in the city centers to
what extent do you agree with this
method I'm just going to spend about a
minute thinking about ideas for both
agree and disagree looking at the pros
and cons of banning city of banning cars
and cities so on the one hand there are
three reasons for why I could agree with
this it could reduce traffic reduce
pollution and increase the use of public
transport which in turn will help the
environment on the other hand there's
always cons and the cons are well
existing public transport and
infrastructure may not cope and City
residents and businesses rely on cars
rely on on the use of these vehicles
okay so I've brainstormed I've thought
of these ideas it's your turn come up
with two or three ideas for agree and 2
or 3 4 disagree for the question related
to children and technology ok do you
agree that technology is harmful to
children three reasons why you agree
three reasons why you disagree actually
just give me two for each we're not
going to have time for three
okay so Kahneman has written four agree
vision damage and lots of time so
they're two very valid reasons for agree
and then disagree was someone wrote easy
access to education so yep technology
could be educational and one of the
other answers here was body and mind
coordination good so these are all very
valid and relevant possibilities next
step so now that we've brainstormed our
ideas we need to then apply them to the
formula so an SI formula is very much
like a mathematical formula it's a
template you follow the template and all
you're doing is inserting the content
let's have a look at an example again
I'm bringing you back to the first slide
that we looked at the SI formula
introduction since the introduction is
based on the question so another reason
why it's important to unpack the
question is because the three parts of
that question are going to form the
three parts of your introduction so the
introduction you want to
phrase the general statement sentence
one sentence too you want to paraphrase
a specific statement from the question
which is the second sentence sentence 3
you want to answer the question the
question is to what extent do you agree
here in sentence 3 this is where you
will say I agree to a large extent or I
disagree so here's where you answer the
question then body paragraph 1 is going
to start off with the main idea the main
idea these come from your brainstorming
table that we just did earlier so for
example I agree that technology is
harmful to children because it can hurt
their vision that's one idea
then you will explain and give an
example for how can technology be
harmful to children's vision in what way
does it harm revision sentence 4 you're
basically repeating the main idea again
and linking or transitioning to the next
one
the next one is going to be the second
main idea so the second reason why I
agree that technology is harmful to
children is because what was the example
is because it makes them antisocial then
you will explain how can technology make
children antisocial give examples and
then reiterate your main idea again your
sentence is always to conclude or in
conclusion and then you do the same
thing that you did in the introduction
you paraphrase the general statement or
the first sentence of the question you
paraphrase the specific statement or the
second sentence of the cushion and then
you answer the question again restating
your opinion so as you can see every
part of the essay has a very specific
formula that we use to make into one
coherent piece of writing
so let's have a look at the introduction
formula breaking it down paraphrase the
question by sentence one of the question
power faces it's two of the question
answer the question let's look at an
example
sorry guys give me one second you can't
see that one so give me one sec okay as
the global population has increased
significantly so has the number of cars
on the road so here I've actually taken
this first sentence from the first
sentence of the question then I've taken
the second sentence from the question
and I've paraphrased it this dramatic
rise has led to the suggestion that
large urban areas should prohibit
private vehicles and I've used synonyms
here the question said city centers I've
said urban areas the question said ban
I've used the word prohibit so I've used
synonyms to express the same idea part
three answer the question I disagree
with this to a large extent for two
reasons and this essay will explain why
so not only have I answered the question
I've said I've given my opinion and I've
also said what the essay will do this
essay will explain why okay so putting
it all together here is my introduction
ok so now that we know how to write an
introduction I would like you to write
the first sentence of your introduction
for this essay question so remember
identify
I'm packing the different parts and then
paraphrasing each part but I just want
you to do the first sentence I'll give
you one minute
[Music]
ok times up I'll just review Cameron's
answer so she said youngsters are
spending a huge amount of time using
electronic gadgets in the current times
so electronic gadgets instead of
computers televisions and smartphones
also great synonym one thing when we
talking about in current times or in a
modern world we want to make sure that
we put that at the start of the sentence
not at the end ok another answer
computer television and smartphones are
the most common thing used by children
good bye children these days we can add
at the end good answers guys well done
so you got the idea the next thing you
would have to do would be to paraphrase
the second sentence and then answer the
question let's move on to body
paragraphs now when we want to write our
body paragraphs we should go back to the
essay question we always want to go back
to make sure that we're answering it and
our essay is on topic so the question is
or the instructions are to what extent
do you agree with this method this is
where we need to make a decision in our
brainstorming we came up with a few
reasons why we agreed and a few reasons
why we disagree
it but to write a very neat precise and
coherent essay we need to decide which
reasons which opinion can I write best
about now doesn't even really matter
what your real opinion is they're not
grading you on your opinion they're
grading you on your ability to express
your ideas so whatever you're going to
find easiest to write about is what you
should write about so pick aside do you
agree or disagree so regarding banning
car usage in cities I said okay reduce
traffic
reduce pollution increased public
transport and I said but on the other
hand there's not the you know
infrastructure to deal with it and
businesses and city residents may suffer
I need to pick aside and I'm going to go
disagree because I think it's just
easier for me to write about these ideas
okay not necessarily because that's my
opinion so my introduction was as global
population has increased so has the
number of cars this dramatic rise had
list has led to the suggestion that
large urban areas should prohibit
private vehicles I agree with this to a
large extent for two reasons and this
essay will explain why
here are my two reasons body paragraph 1
I talked about lack of infrastructure to
be able to cope with this but if
paragraph 2 I talked about city
residents and businesses relying on the
use of cars I've taken my idea to my
brainstorming and I've made them the
main the main body of my paragraphs so
what's the formula then to write a
coherent and precise body paragraphs so
we always start with an opening sentence
and the opening sentence gives my main
idea for example infrastructure or lack
of infrastructure I then
by one to two supporting sentences where
I give reasons or explain what I mean by
lack of infrastructure and how this can
affect negatively affect and cities I
then move on to give evidence evidence
could be examples so you really you have
to explain yourself by giving an example
you can choose a city for example that
has done this and where it hasn't worked
and it's had a negative impact you can
give a fact or you can make it up okay
this is not an academic essay for
university you're not getting graded on
this for you know for the the content as
much you're getting graded on your
ability to express your ideas and write
okay here in essay so in the IELTS is
probably one of the only time in an
essay where we can say it's okay to make
it up and you know make up a source for
example a recent study found that blah
blah blah blah blah and you don't have
to say where the study was or what the
study was and you're just using it as an
example to support your main idea then
you want to end with a closing sentence
where you restate restate your main idea
again so you're coming around in a
circle you start with your main idea and
you end again with your main idea let's
look at an example my opening sentence
is standing car from the central
business district of a lot of a number
of large urban areas will actually cause
additional problems due to insufficient
infrastructure here's my main idea my
paragraph is going to be about
insufficient infrastructure now I'm
going to give reasons for why I think
this as tens of thousands of commuters
who relied on using their own cars will
suddenly be required to find alternative
methods of transport to enter the city
existing public transport facilities and
infrastructure will be overwhelmed okay
will be overwhelmed because of the tens
of thousands of people who were
using cars you will now have to use
public transport and it will not be able
to accommodate I move on by giving even
more supporting detail by providing an
example for example simply adding extra
train services will not work if the
train stations cannot cope with these
new computers commuters during our
computers especially as most of them
need to enter and exit the city during
peak hour so how are they going to cope
with peak hour adding new trains is not
going to be sufficient enough response
now I want to end with my closing
statement restate my idea therefore
simply banging cars without additional
investment in other service other
services is a recipe for disaster so
therefore I've given you my reason and
here I'm providing you with a closing
idea that we can't just spend cars if
we're not going to invest in improving
infrastructure and here's what it will
look like ok your body paragraphs your
lines should all be you shouldn't have
spaces so you'll only leave a space in
between each paragraph ok second body
paragraph the same formula main idea is
there will also be devastating economic
consequences as many businesses in city
centers rely on private vehicles to
deliver supplies on a daily basis so
businesses will suffer is my main idea I
explained this so give reasons by saying
without this form of transport these
businesses will soon close so this is a
major issue here for example restaurants
require daily food deliveries in the
same way a florist needs their flowers
brought in early each morning
so here I've given a specific example of
what kinds of businesses will suffer
restate my idea while a ban on private
cars may improve traffic and lower
pollution it will also cause businesses
to fail and increase unemployment again
going back to the idea of how it's going
to affect businesses which I mentioned
in sentence 1 and here it is ok one
coherent paragraph so task time not
enough time to write an entire body
paragraph but I would like you guys to
try and write the opening sentence of
one of your body paragraphs observing
this question so you guys brainstormed
earlier about why the use of computers
phones and TVs are harmful to children
you came up with some of your own ideas
and now I want you to take one of those
ideas and write it into an opening
sentence
[Music]
okay the Dyna and can my good well done
so an example of one opening sentence to
one of the paragraphs is spending
excessive time in front of electronic
media severely damages the vision of
growing children so that body paragraph
is going to be all about how does
technology reduce the vision of children
dying I wrote one of the biggest reasons
why I agree with the statement is due to
the harmful effects caused on the health
of our eyes so again related to vision
well done let's move on now to the final
part of the essay which is the
conclusion looking at the formula so
always start it was to conclude or in
conclusion paraphrase the general
statement or the first part of the essay
question paraphrase the second part of
the essay question and then in my
opinion answer the question I agree or I
disagree because and then summarize the
key points the key points are your main
ideas main ideas in paragraph one main
idea from paragraph two for example in
conclusion increasing ownership of
private vehicles has resulted in a
number of significant urban issues it
has been suggested that an effective
solution would be to remove these
vehicles from city loans again same
ideas banning prohibiting removing
answer the question of summarize key
points in my opinion banning private
vehicles is not a viable option as
public transport services would not be
able to cope with the higher demand
and many country countries many
companies rely on private cars to run
their businesses successfully so again
I've restated my opinion that I disagree
and I've said why I've summarized my two
reasons which were public transport will
not be able to cope or infrastructure
and relating it back to businesses or
companies okay so just summarizing the
two things we talked about in your essay
and here's what my conclusion would look
like tasks um well sorry that's the
wrong is a question it should be related
to your topic which was the Sun so I
want you to now write these third
sentence of your conclusion for the last
sentence where you conclude answer the
question and summarize your two points
[Music]
alright times almost up I just want the
last sentence of your conclusion
[Music]
okay very good
a to example appear one over all I agree
with the statement that excessive
technology can have detrimental effects
on our health good another example I
completely support the viewpoint that
too much time in front of television
deteriorates the eye sight capacity and
also results in time loss excellent
one comment just make sure guys that you
directly relate to the subject and the
question so here the subject is children
so just make sure that you do mention
children in your conclusion because
children is what this is about it's not
about adults it's not about people in
general it's specifically about kids so
just make sure that you remember to
include that in there
[Music]
okay good we did this okay so the final
product of your essay should look like
this you should be able to see four
distinct paragraphs and as you can see
here I've left a space in between each
paragraph it makes it nice and easy for
the reader to identify yet each each
part of the essay so let's recap the
first thing you need to do is look for
keywords find out what the topic is
what's the subject
what's the opinion okay what does this
essay about unpack the question so
identify the three parts of it because
you're going to use those three parts to
write your intro identify the topic make
sure that you identify specifically what
the question is about so
that you answer it correctly and then
use the formula to write your essay okay
which is what we just looked at so a few
little exercises for us to practice I'm
going to show you an example of an
introduction that's out of order and I
want you to reorder it okay so a B and C
just gives me the correct order using
the letters there okay so you've all
written C a B let's have a look at the
answer well done C a B so here is our
general statement unsustainable forms of
energy such as oil coal and gas are
currently used by many nations the
specific idea is as they are made the
main cause of climate change I will soon
be exhausted
some people propose taking advantage of
nuclear power I agree with this to a
large extent for two reasons and this
essay will explain why nice introduction
then what about this conclusion
[Music]
okay so what's the answer for this one
BC a in conclusion we always start off
with in conclusion there is no doubt
that the popularity of the internet and
social media has led to increased public
interest and some topics that may be
considered a waste of time
however the globalized world allows
people from all over the world to learn
about and contribute to each other
societies and cultures in my opinion
will always start the last paragraph by
answering the question and giving your
opinion and then summarizing the two
points that you discuss so in my opinion
the power of the Internet can be
harnessed in a positive way to enable
people to help each other through online
charitable giving as well as making
friends from all over the world through
popular applications such as Facebook
just stating my opinion and then the two
topics or the two main ideas that we'll
discuss in this essay and we know that
they were helping other people and
making friends
[Music]
so some tips on writing and
agree/disagree essay make sure you do
what the instructions tell you here
you're told to agree or disagree so pick
aside be aware of your word can't you
need to write at least 250 words if you
write under that you will be penalized
and your school will suffer so you want
to practice guys as much as you can
writing essays and getting used to
writing 250 words in 40 minutes take
care with your writing if the examiner
can't read it then they can't market
most of us these days are used to either
using our thumbs to type or our hands on
a keyboard and we're not used to writing
by hand anymore
many of us so if you're one of those
people I suggest you practice writing an
essay in 40 minutes timing yourself
using a pen or a pencil just to get used
to the act of writing again and writing
neatly so if they can't read a word
they're not going to spend time trying
to figure out what you've written
they're just going to go I can't
understand that that's a mistake
and you're going to get penalized so
write neatly avoid writing memorized
essays a lot of people think okay well
if I memorize an essay on transport and
if I memorize an essay on family and if
I memorize an essay on global warming
then when I go in there I get one of
those topics I just write what I've
memorized and I do know of people who
have done that examiner's always know
when you've done it because it's always
slightly off topic or doesn't always
specifically answer the question so
you'll end up getting 0 leave a line
space between each paragraph as you saw
in mind useful chunks of writing it
makes it nice and clear to the examiner
to mark you want to make it as easy for
the examiner to read as possible and not
get them annoyed because it could affect
your score proofread try to leave about
a minute or two minutes at the end if
you can and go back and read a lot of us
after an hour of writing finish
I'm done I didn't want to look at it but
it's really important that you do go
back and look at it because even native
speakers make spelling and grammar
mistakes when you're trying to write
quickly so you want to catch them before
the examiner does when I did my art test
I went back and read my writing and saw
silly little mistakes well goodness I'm
glad that I saw them both I submitted it
because otherwise they would have marked
me down so a lot of time when we're
writing quickly we make mistakes that we
don't see unless we go back and read so
proofreading is mega important that's it
about the advantage disadvantage essay
if you have any question guys questions
you can feel free to ask now
[Music]